---
name: Jay Dillon
position: Chief Operating Officer
email: jdillon@edplanners.org
featured: true
linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jay-dillon-03579180
---
Jay Dillon is currently the Chief Operating Officer for Education Planners, LLC an education consulting firm specializing in personnel management and organizational structure; personnel staff augmentation; financial management; construction management/project development; technology integration; policy development implementation; community engagement; facilitation at the executive level; and SPLOST, bond, and tax referendum preparation.

Mr. Dillon was the Director of Communication with Cobb County School District for 17 years. During that time he managed the communications staff and oversaw internal/external communications and strategic communications planning for 110,000 students and 14,500 employee school system including: district-wide publications; media relations; writer of speeches, briefings, letters, newspaper columns for the Superintendent and Board of Education; consultant/advisor as a member of the Superintendent’s senior staff and executive cabinet teams; developed and produced multi-media presentations for the superintendent, executive staff and central office departments; oversaw the school district’s cable access television station (COBB ed-TV); supervised the development, design and content for award-winning school district Website, [www.cobbk12.org](https://www.cobbk12.org "Cobb County School District Website"), internal Intranet site for employees and 114 individual local school Web sites; developed and implemented strategic communications outreach plan and assisted with development of district-wide strategic plan; hosted on-site communications training and developed PR training material for school-based staff; developed successful communications strategies to reach large employee and community stakeholder bases utilizing video, e-mail, text, social media, the Internet, and an automated telephone calling system; and directed four successful communications campaigns (1998, 2003, 2008 and 2012) to pass countywide one percent (1%) sales tax referenda for school construction.

Jay Dillon received his Bachelor of Arts (English) at Hampden-Sydney College, Hampden-Sydney, Virginia. From 2011 to 2014 he served as Chairman of the Cobb & Douglas Board of Public Health MAPP Steering Committee, which is currently implementing a Community Health Improvement Plan. He also serves on the Board of Directors for E. Dillon and Company, Swords Creek, Virginia. Mr. Dillon has been a member of Leadership Cobb, Class of 2003; Cobb Chamber of Commerce Economic Development Steering Committee; Cobb Chamber of Commerce Business-Education Steering Committee; National School Public Relations Association and the Georgia School Public Relations Association.

Mr. Dillon has received the Telly Award – “SPLOST Program” video (writer and producer); WorldFest Houston- Platinum Award – Film and Video Remi Awards and numerous Georgia School Public Relations Association Gold Awards of Excellence for website, publications and communications initiatives. He is a past member of the Rotary Club of Marietta, Cobb Symphony Orchestra – Young Patrons of the Arts Committee, Gobble Jog Charity Fun Run board member, and current member of St. Anne’s Episcopal Church in Atlanta.
