src/team/jamesw.md, before:

---
name: James Wilson
position: Founder, CEO
email: jwilson@edplanners.org
featured: true
linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/james-wilson-79b1b223
permalink: team/{{ name | slug }}/index.html
---

James Wilson is the founder and owner of Education Planners with over 30 years of experience as an educational professional. He served as superintendent of schools in two metro Atlanta school districts, Cobb County Schools and Fulton County Schools. While serving Fulton County Schools he improved test scores, expanded instructional technology, and created "virtual classrooms" providing students with the opportunity to take advanced coursework from Georgia Tech while staying in their home school setting.

Mr. Wilson is a past participant in the Vanderbilt University Institute for Education Leaders, the Harvard University Institue for Educational Leaders, the Harvard University Superintendent Institute and is a member of the Atlanta Regional Commission (ARC) for leadership.

Mr. Wilson established Education Planners as a way to continue seving school districts across the southeast in leadership/business management, exploring and sharing ways to become more efficient and effective with managing one's resources.

As a recognized educational leader, he has extensive experience in all facets of school operations and is accomplished at building stakeholder support for school initiatives. Education Planners works with school districts across the southeast in the areas of facility and planning human resource management, efficiency od services, and leadership coaching.

Mr. Wilson is a certified executive coach and a frequent presenter at conferences at the local and state levels.

## Professional Organizations

- AdvancED State Board of Directors
- AASA, The Schools superintendent Association

## Publications and Training

- Leadership through Turbulent Times
- Efficiency and Effectiveness
- Leadership Is
- Executive Coaching
- Building Positive Public Awareness
- Now Let's Think About This

Commit message:

redesign (#5)
* Update template styles

* Update Tailwind config

Migrate to plugin syntax
Add TextShadow util
Remove transform (it's native now)
Add wrapper grid component

* Add blurb shortcode

* Update template

* Update data

* Update template

layout
new metrics design

* Update data

* Update template

* Update template (work)

* Update services layout

* Update quote data

* Update quotes layout

* Add md filter for list bullets (for services)

* flatten HR bullets

* Update templates

* Move about blurb to site data

* Allow for TOML data files

* Update link+icon styles

* Migrate some data to toml

* move tw colors to extends

TODO: remove old styles

* Update tw colors in templates

* Update default extractor per TW docs

* Migrate to purge _site to allow 11ty shortcodes

TODO: can remove old content setting

* Revert to purge templates and 11ty folder

* Use manaul purge settings per tw docs

* Update bio

* Fix typos

* Update for mobile, tablet

* Pad email icon link

* Update team emails formatting

* update bio

src/team/jamesw.md, after:

---
name: James Wilson
position: Founder, CEO
email: jwilson@edplanners.org
featured: true
linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/james-wilson-79b1b223
permalink: team/{{ name | slug }}/index.html
---

Education Planners is an educational consulting firm helping school districts across the Southeast handle organizational challenges and operate more efficiently.

As a consortium of recognized educational leaders and senior associates, Education Planners' highly experienced staff specializes in helping school districts succeed in overall performance by evaluating and making recommendations in the areas of finance, facilities and human resources. 

Education Planners has established a unique approach and methodology for working with School Districts and has built a trade mark in our industry of, **Positive Public Awareness**. The **Positive Public Awareness** approach has proven to provide a *True Success Story*, for school districts facing a wide range of challenges. Education Planners in partnering with school districts helps to achieve desired goals and increase operational efficiency and effectiveness. We understand that every school district's challenges are different, which is why our specialized team of professionals are chosen based on your institution's unique needs. We encourage client engagement; working together, we develop collaborative teams of strategic thinkers. 

James Wilson is the founder and owner of Education Planners with over 35 years of experience as an education professional. He has served as superintendent of schools in two metro Atlanta school districts. Cobb County Schools and Fulton County Schools. While serving in Fulton County Schools he created "virtual classrooms" providing students with the opportunity to take advanced coursework from Georgia Tech while staying in their home school setting. 

Mr. Wilson is a past participant in the Vanderbilt University Institute for Education Leaders, the Harvard University Institute for Educational Leaders, the Harvard University Superintendents institute and the Atlanta Regional Commission Leadership Institute, 

Mr. Wilson established Education Planners as a way to continue serving school districts across the southeast in leadership/business management. Exploring and sharing ways to become more efficient and effective with managing ones' resources. 

Mr. Wilson is a certified executive coach and a frequent presenter at conferences on the local and state levels. Publications and Training include: ***Leadership through Turbulent Times***, ***Leadership Is***, and ***Building Positive Public Awareness***.
