---
name: Karen Cox
email: kcox@edplanners.com
---
Karen Cox, Ed. S., served in the Fulton County School System (Metro Atlanta, GA area) for 33 years as a teacher, coach, curriculum coordinator, principal, professional development executive director and area superintendent. She also led the district’s Academic Division for three months as deputy superintendent during its transition to a new superintendent in 2011.

Cox was an integral player in the reorganization of Fulton County Schools, creating the four learning communities and the central office teams that support the schools in each area. All hiring processes were reviewed and revised to focus on performance and ensuring that the best people were hired for classrooms, administrative and learning community teams; she was a leading member of the team that did this work. Cox also participated in key teams that developed the district’s Strategic Plan, “Building Our Future 2017.” She has been called on throughout her career to serve on many different committees due to her expertise in curriculum, instruction, assessment, personnel, construction, finance and school culture.

As area superintendent, Cox was responsible for 23 schools in the Central Learning Community. Under her leadership, schools saw improvements in key metrics across grades and participated in growing a stronger professional learning community focused on improving outcomes for all students. She was instrumental in replacing underperforming administrators and hiring successful, student-focused principals. Cox was a key member of the team that wrote and received a 3+ million dollar SIG grant for an open campus school in her learning community. That school is in its second year of implementation and has seen success with improved student outcomes, improved school culture and climate, and improved performance by teachers and staff. Cox was a member of the implementation team at the school prior to her retirement in 2014.

Since retiring in 2014, Cox has worked as a consultant supporting schools with curriculum and instruction implementation strategies and coaching principals in high-need schools. She is currently assisting select schools that are implementing International Baccalaureate Programmes. She has also worked extensively with schools and districts in developing strategic plans and professional development plans. Cox also teaches part time at Georgia State University.
