---
title: Muscogee County Schools
challenge: Help Muscogee County schools develop a plan for the efficient allocation of SPLOST funding so as to construct and/or improve the district's facilities.
---
Entering the 2009-2010 school year, school officials in Muscogee County, Georgia, were faced with a welcomed but serious challenge: How to efficiently allocate roughly $230,000,000 in SPLOST funding so as to construct and/or improve the district's educational facilities. With the support of the Muscogee County School Board, Superintendant Dr. Susan Andrews turned to Education Planners for help. "My predecessor had worked with Education Planners previously," says Dr. Andrews. "I knew their reputation for being knowledgeable, professional, and coming up with innovative and effective solutions to problems. I enlisted Education Planners because I knew its consultants would provide us with the best possible approaches for improving our district."

The experts at Education Planners worked closely with Dr. Andrews, her staff, and the district's board of education to develop both an effective spending plan and a process for implementing it successfully. "We did not want to dictate to Muscogees administrators what they should do," states James Wilson, chief executive and founder of Education Planners. "Instead, we wanted to take the time to listen and understand what the district needed. Once we knew the end result we were aiming for, then we were able to assist administrators and come up with a plan to ensure that SPLOST dollars were used to accomplish the district's goals."

Education Planners helped Muscogee clarify its objectives and come up with a plan to allocate SPLOST dollars accordingly. The company also tracked spending and made presentations to both the district's board of education and state leaders explaining the reasons for the district's spending decisions and how the agreed upon plan would be implemented. "Education Planners did a phenomenal job," proclaims Dr. Andrews. "Not only did they help us develop the right plan and present it to local and state officials, but they created an informative booklet outlining the process and assisted us in effectively presenting our plan to the public as well."

Thanks largely to Education Planners, Muscogee has used its 2009-2010 SPLOST funding to finance construction of a new high school, middle school, and elementary school. In addition, the district has renovated fifty-three gymnasiums by installing air conditioning, made numerous needed repairs to existing facilities, and recently purchased land for construction of a new school specializing in the performing arts. When asked to comment on her experience with Education Planners, Dr. Andrews states, "I highly recommend them to any administrator looking for innovative approaches to education and/or wanting to maximize the wise use of their SPLOST dollars. Their professional yet low pressure approach made me feel like we were working together as partners. I felt like I was working with a friend as well as a group of proven experts."
